README.md, before:

# Optparse
A BASH wrapper for getopts, for simple command-line argument parsing

### ( ! ) ATTENTION MAC USERS
Optparse requires `gnu-sed` instead of the default Mac version of sed, which you can do with the following:
```
brew install gnu-sed --with-default-names
```

## What is this?
A wrapper that provides a clean and easy way to parse arguments to your BASH scripts. It lets you define short and long option names, handle flag variables, and set default values for optional arguments, all while aiming to be as minimal as possible: *One line per argument definition*.

## Usage
##### See `sample_head.sh` for a demonstration of optparse
### 1. Define your arguments

Each argument to the script is defined with `optparse.define`, which specifies the option names, a short description, the variable it sets and the default value (if any).

```bash
optparse.define short=f long=file desc="The input file" variable=filename
```

Flags are defined in exactly the same way, but with an extra parameter `value` that is assigned to the variable.

```bash
optparse.define short=v long=verbose desc="Set flag for verbose mode" variable=verbose_mode value=true default=false
```

### 2. Evaluate your arguments
The `optparse.build` function creates a temporary header script based on the provided argument definitions. Simply source the file the function returns, to parse the arguments.

```bash
source $( optparse.build )
```

#### That's it!
The script can now make use of the variables. Running the script (without any arguments) should give you a neat usage description.

    usage: ./script.sh [OPTIONS]

    OPTIONS:

        -f --file  :  The input file
    	-v --verbose  :  Set flag for verbose mode

    	-? --help  :  usage

## Supported definition parameters
All definition parameters for `optparse.define` are provided as `key=value` pairs, seperated by an `=` sign.
#### `short`
a short, single-letter name for the option
#### `long`
a longer expanded option name
#### `variable`
the target variable that the argument represents
#### `value`(optional)
the value to set the variable to. If unspecified, user is expected to provide a value.
#### `desc`(optional)
a short description of the argument (to build the usage description)
#### `default`(optional)
the default value to set the variable to if argument not specified

## Installation
1. Download/clone `optparse.bash`
2. Add

```bash
`source /path/to/optparse.bash`
```
to `~/.bashrc`

Commit message:

Use optparse.compose instead of optparse.build in README and sample_head.sh

README.md, after:

# Optparse
A BASH wrapper for getopts, for simple command-line argument parsing

### ( ! ) ATTENTION MAC USERS
Optparse requires `gnu-sed` instead of the default Mac version of sed, which you can do with the following:
```
brew install gnu-sed --with-default-names
```

## What is this?
A wrapper that provides a clean and easy way to parse arguments to your BASH scripts. It lets you define short and long option names, handle flag variables, and set default values for optional arguments, all while aiming to be as minimal as possible: *One line per argument definition*.

## Usage
##### See `sample_head.sh` for a demonstration of optparse
### 1. Define your arguments

Each argument to the script is defined with `optparse.define`, which specifies the option names, a short description, the variable it sets and the default value (if any).

```bash
optparse.define short=f long=file desc="The input file" variable=filename
```

Flags are defined in exactly the same way, but with an extra parameter `value` that is assigned to the variable.

```bash
optparse.define short=v long=verbose desc="Set flag for verbose mode" variable=verbose_mode value=true default=false
```

### 2. Evaluate your arguments
The `optparse.compose` function prints out the header content based on the provided argument definitions. Simply evaluate the result to parse the arguments.

```bash
eval "$(optparse.compose)"
```

If you don't want to have `eval` in your script, source it like:

```bash
source <<( optparse.compose )
```

To keep backward compatibility, the `optparse.build` function creates a temporary header script containing the result printed by `optparse.compose`, plus a command to delete itself after sourcing.

Previous scripts source the file the function returns to parse the arguments.

```bash
source $( optparse.build )
```

#### That's it!
The script can now make use of the variables. Running the script (without any arguments) should give you a neat usage description.

    usage: ./script.sh [OPTIONS]

    OPTIONS:

        -f --file  :  The input file
    	-v --verbose  :  Set flag for verbose mode

    	-? --help  :  usage

## Supported definition parameters
All definition parameters for `optparse.define` are provided as `key=value` pairs, seperated by an `=` sign.
#### `short`
a short, single-letter name for the option
#### `long`
a longer expanded option name
#### `variable`
the target variable that the argument represents
#### `value`(optional)
the value to set the variable to. If unspecified, user is expected to provide a value.
#### `desc`(optional)
a short description of the argument (to build the usage description)
#### `default`(optional)
the default value to set the variable to if argument not specified

## Installation
1. Download/clone `optparse.bash`
2. Add

```bash
`source /path/to/optparse.bash`
```
to `~/.bashrc`
